# Quote Generator

This documentation covers the **NodeJS Quote API** and its different features and functions. This README is separated into different sections, to better organize the information within it. My goal is a full-fledged API, with full-use functionality.

## Schema


### Quotes

The quotes inside of */quotes/Quotes.json* are generated by AI.

### Utilities

Inside of */utilities*, you can find the following files:

- **quote_util.js**: Utility class, with methods for handling the JSON data inside of the *Quotes.json*.

- - *getQuotes*: Parses the Quotes.json file, and returns the JSON string
- - *getRandomCategory*: Chooses a random category, there are 7 categories and it randomly picks a number between 1 and 7, assigning the categories depending on which number is chosen. Then it returns the category string to be used when picking a quote.
- - *getRandomQuote*: Chooses a random quote, using the quote JSON string and the category as a parameter.

### Endpoints

The different endpoints return different information based on which one is used. They are imported and used within *index.js* in the root directory.

- **/api/quote/random**: Returns the JSON value of a random quote. This would have to be parsed on the front-end.
- **api/quote/motivational**: Returns the JSON value of a random motivational quote. This would have to be parsed on the front-end.
- **api/quote/work**: Returns the JSON value of a random work quote. This would have to be parsed on the front-end.
- **api/quote/life**: Returns the JSON value of a random life quote. This would have to be parsed on the front-end.
- **api/quote/love**: Returns the JSON value of a random love quote. This would have to be parsed on the front-end.
- **api/quote/happiness**: Returns the JSON value of a random happiness quote. This would have to be parsed on the front-end.
- **api/quote/family**: Returns the JSON value of a random family quote. This would have to be parsed on the front-end.
- **api/quote/funny**: Returns the JSON value of a random funny quote. This would have to be parsed on the front-end.

### Server Settings

Adjustable settings for the server can be found within */configuration/ServerSettings.json* file. After any changes, the server must be restarted unless using an auto-restart package like *nodemon* that changes on file save. This isn't a great option for production, however it works fine for development environments.

You can find the following settings within the JSON file:
- **servername**: This is the name of the API, you can change this to whatever you want to utilize.
- **port**: This is the port the application will be listening for requests on.
- **usekeys**: This option allows for API key useage. This will require API keys to be created and administered. The production variant of this project utilizes API keys for security and use reasons.
- **activeapiendpoints**:
- - *getrandomquote*: Set to *true* allows for this endpoint to be used, *false* will disabled the endpoint.
- - *getmotivationalquote*: Set to *true* allows for this endpoint to be used, *false* will disabled the endpoint.
- - *getworkquote*: Set to *true* allows for this endpoint to be used, *false* will disabled the endpoint.
- - *getlifequote*: Set to *true* allows for this endpoint to be used, *false* will disabled the endpoint.
- - *getlovequote*: Set to *true* allows for this endpoint to be used, *false* will disabled the endpoint.
- - *gethappinessquote*: Set to *true* allows for this endpoint to be used, *false* will disabled the endpoint.
- - *getfamilyquote*: Set to *true* allows for this endpoint to be used, *false* will disabled the endpoint.
- - *getfunnyquote*: Set to *true* allows for this endpoint to be used, *false* will disabled the endpoint.
- - *404*: Set to *true* allows for this endpoint to be used, *false* will disabled the endpoint.